Docs 5755 xlsxlookup duke (#886)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/dataweave-formats.adoc

|===
// TODO: PLAIN TEXT SECTION? <<format_plain_text>>

> [[dw_readers_writers]]

Author: This dw_readers_writers section was just moved here from another file. It was already been reviewed, quite recently.

> == DataWeave Readers and Writers

Author: This DataWeave Readers and Writers section was just moved here from another file. It was already been reviewed, quite recently.

> == DataWeave Readers and Writers

Reviewer: This title and the introduction text do not match, because readers and writers are not mentioned in that text.
This title implies that the following text will describe DataWeave readers and writers, which it does not.

Can you reword the title or add something about readers and writers to the intro? How does this topic lead to its subtopics?

The following edit is based on the intro text as it now appears, which is really just an introduction to three methods of reading input.

Is the focus of this topic set supposed to be managing heavy loads by using the streaming method? How do readers and writers apply?

DataWeave can read input data as a whole in-memory, in indexed fashion,
and for some data formats, part-by-part by streaming the input. When attempting
to read a large file, it is possible to run out of memory or to impact

> performance negatively. Streaming can improve performance but impacts access to file.

Reviewer: This intro text needs to clarify how the different methods that DataWeave uses to read input can affect performance...something like:

"You can optimize how DataWeave reads input data by considering projected data load and memory resources. For example, streaming can improve performance, but it impacts access to the data file. DataWeave can read input data whole, in-memory; in an indexed fashion; and, for some data formats, part-by-part, by streaming the input:"

Reviewer: This leads to the list.
But readers and writers are never mentioned.

* Indexed and In-Memory: Allow for random access to data because both
strategies parse the entire document. For these strategies, your DataWeave
script can access any part of the resulting value at any time.
** Indexed: Uses indexes over the disk.

> ** In-Memory: Parses the entire document in memory.

Reviewer: * In-memory and indexed
Both of these strategies allow for random access to data by parsing the entire document:
** In-Memory parses the entire document in memory.
** Indexed uses indexes over the disk.
Using these strategies, your DataWeave script can access any part of the resulting value at any time.

Reviewer: (I reversed the order to match the order in which these methods are originally introduced, for consistency.)

* Streaming: Allows for sequential access to the file. This strategy partitions
the input document into smaller items and accesses its data sequentially,
storing the current item in memory. A DataWeave selector can access the portion
of the file that is getting read. DataWeave supports streaming for a few
formats:
** <<format_csv, CSV>>

> ** <<format_json, JSON>>

Reviewer: * Streaming
This strategy allows for sequential access to the file by partitioning
the input document into smaller items and storing only the current item in memory.
A DataWeave selector can access the portion of the file being read. 
DataWeave supports streaming for these formats:
** <<format_csv, CSV>>
** <<format_json, JSON>>

Reviewer: What is "a DataWeave selector"? We earlier refer to the DataWeave script; is this part of that? Will your audience understand?

Reviewer: Again, no mention of how readers and writers play a part in this.

[[reader_writer_properties]]

> === Using Reader and Writer Properties

Author: The Using Reader and Writer Properties section was just moved and converted to an H3.

> === Using Reader and Writer Properties

Reviewer: Using these properties to accomplish what goal?
Consider making the title more specific to the text that follows it.
Also, clarify how this topic is a subtopic of the previous; they seem unrelated as the content is now organized.

Reviewer: In the interest of time, I am going to stop making organizational edits. But that should be done eventually. Consider creating a JIRA to do this.

The rest of this file is mostly copyedited only.

> In some cases, it is necessary to modify or specify aspects of the format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes you must modify or specify aspects of the format
```
Direct audience address, active voice.
Also, the "format" of what?

> through format-specific properties. For example, you can specify CSV input and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by using format-specific properties, such as the `separator` (or delimiter) to use in a CSV file or, 
```

> output properties, such as the `separator` (or delimiter) to use in the CSV file.

Reviewer: omit, per above

> For Cobol copybook, you need to specify the path to a schema file using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for Cobol copybook, the path to a schema file, using the
```

`schemaPath` property.

> 

Reviewer: (Note that I have suggested reducing the previous para to the single sentence above.)

You can append reader properties to the MIME type (`outputMimeType`) attribute

> for certain components in your Mule app. Listeners and Read operations accept

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for certain components in your Mule app. Listeners and read operations accept
```

these settings. For example, this On New File listener example identifies the `,`
separator for a CSV input file:

.Example: Properties for the CSV Reader
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<file:listener doc:name="On New File" config-ref="File_Config" outputMimeType='application/csv; separator=","'>
  <scheduling-strategy >
    <fixed-frequency frequency="45" timeUnit="SECONDS"/>
  </scheduling-strategy>
  <file:matcher filenamePattern="comma_separated.csv" />
</file:listener>
----

Note that the `outputMimeType` setting above helps the CSV _reader_ interpret
the format and delimiter of the input `comma_separated.csv` file, not the writer.

> 

Reviewer: At some point, consider separate subtopics for reader properties and writer properties.

> To specify the output format, you can provide the MIME type and any writer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To specify the output format, provide the MIME type and any writer
```

> properties for the writer, such as the CSV or JSON writer used by a File Write

Reviewer: ```suggestion
properties for the writer, such as the CSV or JSON writer used by a file write
```

> operation. For example, you might need to write a pipe (`|`) delimiter in your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
operation. For example, you might need to use a pipe (`|`) delimiter in your
```

CSV output payload, instead of some other delimiter used in the input. To do

> this, you append the property and its value to the `output` directive of a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this, append the property and its value to the `output` directive of a
```

> DataWeave expression. For example, this Write operation specifies the pipe as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DataWeave expression. For example, this write operation specifies the pipe as
```

a `separator`:

.Example: output Directive for the CSV Writer
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<file:write doc:name="Write" config-ref="File_Config" path="my_transform">
  <file:content ><![CDATA[#[output application/csv separator="|" --- payload]]]></file:content>
</file:write>
----

> The sections below list the format-specific reader and writer properties

Reviewer: Omit this type of transition between topics, which we want to be whole, independent units.
Consider using a See Also link instead.

| `separator` | Char | `,` a| Character that separates one record from another.
| `streaming` | Boolean | `false` a| Used for streaming input CSV.
Valid options: `true` or `false` (Use only if entries are accessed sequentially.)

> See the <<stream_csv, streaming example>>, and see <<dw_readers_writers>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the <<stream_csv, streaming example>> and <<dw_readers_writers>>.
```
Verify that this transforms into a logical sentence.

[[stream_csv]]
.Streaming Example:

By default, the CSV reader stores input data from an entire file in-memory

> if the file is 1.5MB or less. If the file is larger than 1.5 MB, the process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if the file is 1.5 MB or less. If the file is larger than 1.5 MB, the process
```
